Dear esteemed fellow practitioners, Today is the
anniversary of the Great Patriarch Mahakasyapa.
Our Golden Cup Club, practicing the Six Harmonies, is organizing a cultural evening
to celebrate his ascetic practices
through a play about him begging for a
bowl of rice porridge from a
poor old woman suffering from leprosy. This play is
taken from the scriptures and
we are recreating it. This is
our club's way of conveying Buddhist teachings through this cultural evening, dear fellow practitioners.
[Applause]
In the play, we
see that after the old woman offered a bowl of rice porridge,
she also ate a portion of it.
Because she ate the porridge, she
died. Thanks to the merit of that offering,
she was reborn in the Heaven of Bliss as
an extremely beautiful celestial maiden with a
radiant glow. So here
we discuss
merit. If we Buddhists are at home,
we see that the chaos and disharmony
in the family, parents, spouses, and children, are related
to eating habits—whether there is much
or little food, whether the
husband and wife are not well-fed.  Happiness is
partly due to the food;
discord within a family is partly due to the
food; family arguments and
disagreements are also partly due to the food. In life,
food becomes a subject of criticism. For example, at one
wedding, there's a feast at one house versus another;
today I offer this dish, others
offer that dish. Is
n't that judgmental? Isn't that discordant? Therefore,
attachment to taste creates immense suffering
for the world, and it is a source of
our own suffering and distress. We
are dependent on it, aren't we?
Our joy is partly due to the
taste of food, and our anger is
also partly due to the taste of food.
Living beings, because of their attachment to the taste of food,
create immeasurable and boundless evil karma. It is
also because of this taste of food that hatred,
conflict, and downfall occur.
Because of the taste of food, we have to
kill, do
n't we? And from the lives of living beings, we
prepare
countless dishes.  What is greed for
position? Therefore, those who wish to attain enlightenment
must be completely at ease before all
beings, completely eradicating greed for
position. When we still have greed for position,
our minds are still evil and
unwholesome, and evil actions will arise in
our minds and actions. So,
how should a practitioner eradicate evil and unwholesome actions? Evil
is the mind and unwholesome actions. Eradicating evil and unwholesome actions is eradicating
evil and
unwholesome actions, cultivating compassion and achieving
sainthood.
Do you see
that, Master
Kashyapa, having already attained enlightenment,
ate a bowl of vulture porridge
very calmly. But what happened to the old woman who ate autumn porridge? She
died. Here, I, Han Guan,
would like to share this: Sometimes, when
we hear such stories or hear the
stories told by the great masters,
we are afraid to practice, we are afraid of eating
autumn. But, dear fellow practitioners,
this physical body is created by karma, so our
illnesses and
ailments, our incompatibility with food, are due to
karma clinging to taste, for example...  For example, in Asia, people
like to eat certain foods because of their karma,
so they are born in Asia. In
Europe, why do people like certain flavors? It's
their karma. A
buffalo likes to eat grass because of
its karma. A tiger eats meat because of
its karma. Do you see? We
also have foods that some people can't eat,
right? They can't eat
that because of their karma.
Karma is what arises from body, speech, and mind. And when
monks meditate to
eliminate evil and unwholesome actions, the
changes in their bodies are
natural, so they will adapt.
Otherwise, when we hear about the Great Master Mahakasyapa, or
our monks,
we would be afraid. If we don't practice alms-gathering, we
uproot our
fears. If we find our food
unsuitable, would we be afraid? Fear
leads to anger, right?
For example, today
we come home from work, tired and exhausted, in
this hot sun, and we don't have time to eat,
do we?  So, we get angry
because we're afraid of what? We're afraid of the heat, afraid of the stomach, right?
Because of fear, fear, fear of many things, fear of
not getting enough nutrients,
fear of not enjoying the food, fear of not eating something suitable, right? It all boils down to fear.
But the enlightened ones are free,
meaning they are not afraid. It's not just
us. We can eliminate
greed, we can only eliminate the fear
of food. Once we are afraid, we are afraid of everything.
Once the fear is gone, everything is gone. Do you see
that? That's why when we make
offerings to enlightened beings, we
receive blessings. Because their minds are always joyful, happy, and
unhindered.
We, on the other hand, are greatly hindered by anger and
hatred, and lack any compassion. So
many evil deeds arise from
this mind. Therefore, the enlightened ones practice the thirteen ascetic practices,
making them saints.
What is called a
saintly mind? Their minds are completely silent,
called saintly compassion.
Constantly shining, called saintly.
What is called ordinary?  Greed, anger, and delusion are
called the ordinary. The sacred also means pure
and bright, dear assembly. The ordinary
means impure, dark, and ignorant, and
impure is unwholesome. Pure and bright means
wisdom and what? That's purity. Do we
see the difference? They are very
different. Why do the monks tell us
that even if we mix food together, we ca
n't be like them? Because even if
we mix it together, our minds are still greedy.
What else would we be greedy for? Greed for possessions,
greed for family? Now, dear fellow practitioners,
just being away from your family for a
week will cause those longing thoughts and feelings to
arise, binding us, making
us restless and unbearable. That's
because of love. Men seek women, women
seek men, right? Because we can't control ourselves, we get married. If we couldn't control ourselves,
we wouldn't get married, and we wouldn't
suffer. Because of
love, there's no heartbreak, right?
So, that's also what it is to fear
loneliness, right? That's
why when getting married, the elders often say, "When you get married, you
have each other in sickness and in pain, you'll have each other to cook
for each other."  Eating alone is impossible, is
n't that right? Do you all agree?
That's why the
practice of begging for alms is a practice of
eliminating greed and attachment. What is greed and attachment? Attachment is
liking something. If we don't like it, we won't be greedy. We must
like it first before we can be greedy.
For example, if we like
this food, then we become greedy. If we don't
like it, why would
we be greedy? We must like it to be greedy. Liking something is called attachment,
right? Not liking it is called attachment. Greed is attachment,
so what is it called greed? Then we develop possessions,
what is it called greed? And then
we take things from others. Having greed, we
then give rise to theft, which is
unwholesome. Do you see? That's
why when monks beg for alms, their
minds become
clear and their wisdom becomes enlightened. Then
they see everything, which is called
perfect wisdom. This is the example of the mind's contemplation:
when we are greedy,
our minds become angry and our minds are dark. For
example, coming home from work and seeing food on the table
that isn't to our liking.  So, the dissatisfaction
arises because what we like isn't
available. It's not suitable, so
this food isn't what we like.
Therefore, we become angry and resentful. Anger and resentment manifest as
immediate anger and scolding, to the point that
our minds don't even understand.
Why is it that today, our family—
our wife, our parents—only
have this one dish? It's true that our minds
don't even perceive it.
If there's no anger,
what will people do? They'll ask, "Dad, why are we
eating this dish today? It's hot,
why not another dish to make it cooler?"
Dad will say, "Today, Dad's foot hurts, Mom's
foot hurts, Mom went to the market," or "That's the
only dish left at the market, right?" Isn't that
a normal thing
we don't see when
our minds are immersed in attachment? When attachment arises,
ignorance arises. That is, the
lack of clear thinking appears. Do you
see
that? That's why monks practice alms-giving,
so that we can eliminate greed and attachment, and
open our wisdom.
That's a simple matter.  But it's not
simply that we are just listeners. What about
a dish? Each part of our meal is separate,
rice is rice, soup is
soup. It's just that the flavors don't quite match.
But when everything is mixed together, does
anyone find that dish palatable? No one finds it
palatable. But then meditation
helps us find it
palatable because the
masters in meditation have methods to
eliminate that, and when they
eat, the dish becomes delicious. The
Buddha's merit
is like
this: The Buddha gave Ananda a grain of
horse rice—the kind of rice people
feed horses. When Ananda put it
in his mouth, the sweet taste and fragrant aroma
spread, and he felt full of joy
for seven days. That's because of the Buddha's merit.
That's why a practitioner like Mahakasyapa could drink a
bowl of rice porridge and still meditate normally.
But what about us? If we drank a bowl of rice porridge, we'd
probably end up in the hospital,
right? If we were forced to drink it, we'd end up in the hospital.
And the mind of a master...  How is it that the Venerable One's heart is for the
benefit of all sentient beings? He knows that
this old woman
will die today. He knows that
today she will receive two
bowls of rice porridge, drink it,
and die. Death leads to the three
evil paths, so he refused alms and offerings
of rich and delicious food,
and instead ate the rice porridge. So,
if someone doesn't practice meditation,
can they practice
this great compassion? No, they can't.
Because if we ate it,
we would die before the old woman. Perhaps if
we came to beg and ate it, we would
die too, and the old woman wouldn't dare eat it anymore,
right?
But this old woman's fate
today is to die; if she doesn't die one way, she will
die another.
Do you see? So, the Venerable One drank the
rice porridge to bring joy to the old woman.
After he finished drinking, he went to her and
asked her what she wished for,
what kind of merit
she wished for. Only then did she realize
how much suffering she had endured in this world.  Not wanting to
return to the world, she heard that being in
heaven was very happy. She
wished to go to heaven, and the deity granted
her wish. So, she had completed
a meritorious deed,
hadn't she? That's why we often
hear things like, "The
world has plenty of food, alms
bowls are available everywhere, depending on circumstances,"
right? It's not about worldly things, but about
wearing the monastic robe. Only then can one
truly practice the ascetic practices.
At home, one is bound by the eight precepts of vegetarianism for a day and a night,
but few can leave their
phones, right?
This eight-precepts vegetarian practice is worldly; for one
day, we should not use our
phones or contact worldly matters,
but how many can do it?
Knowing that is beneficial, knowing
that is our cause. One
day of practicing the eight precepts is eternal;
in that cause, there is not a single
worldly cause, but the cause of
Nirvana. But how many of us can use it? How
many can sow the seed of
Nirvana completely, right? We also practice the eight
precepts for a day and a night.  But, as it is, if we do
n't completely sever ties with the
world, we don't know if, throughout our lives, observing the Eight Precepts, we will
attain the
eternal and complete state of Nirvana.
Or will it only lead to the heavenly realm?
Isn't that right, dear fellow practitioners? Using a phone a little bit, we call it being in the lower, more distant heavenly realm. Is that correct? Because the
heavenly realm is still connected to the world,
right? But ideally, one day of practicing the Eight
Precepts brings us the
blessings of the heavenly realm, but it also has the cause
of Nirvana, transcending the world. Yet few can
do it. You see, one day and
one night without a phone. If we use a
phone, it's only for contacting
each other to go to practice, not
for worldly matters, not for
contacting this person or that person. It's simply about
this practice.
But how many can do it? How many can fully
attain that cause? Isn't that right, dear fellow
practitioners? When we understand the
merit of practicing the Eight Precepts, we realize that
in the past, the responsibilities were few, and
now, even if there are responsibilities, one
day of practicing the Eight Precepts is not as precious as the Great Dharma.
See? It's very easy to not be connected to the world;
only duty is duty, and duty lasts
throughout the world. Do you see?
It's very easy. So today,
in this sharing session, the monks also
talked about the practice of begging for alms, so
we can see that for the monks, simply
begging for alms, we give up so many
things just to gain merit for ourselves.
But eating is like that; it's very difficult, very
arduous, very much a practice. The
first meal, then meditation, then fighting off
delusions and sensations that
arise, then using the Dharma to fight them again. And so on and so forth,
the fear is
eliminated, the attachment to taste is eliminated,
we become a different kind of being, an
enlightened being, a being of pure conduct.
Gradually,
we achieve liberation. Is
n't that noble? It's very difficult, everyone. It's
difficult,
but anyone who practices can do it. It's difficult for
those who are still attached to the world, but those who have
renounced the world can do it. And we
see how healthy the monks are, they are healthy.
As for the practice of going barefoot,
it's not included in the 13 initial practices
because even monks had to
practice that, so it's very
normal. During the time of the Buddha, wearing sandals or
other things was very rare. For example, the monks at the
Golden Pagoda only wore sandals when performing their duties; otherwise, they went
into the forest barefoot.
So we see, fighting against the
fear in the mind isn't easy, dear fellow practitioners.
Not wearing socks in the cold is difficult, is
n't it? Not wearing sandals is difficult, let alone stepping on bones. The cold is so intense,
it's bone-chilling.
We have to step
on bones, morning and night, how difficult!
But we must
fight with our inner selves, completely fighting with our
inner selves. Remember, on the 49th night,
our Buddha attained
Supreme Enlightenment. He attained the Threefold Knowledge, which is the
realization of the inner mind. The inner mind is
completely pure, without a trace of affliction, without a single bit
of suffering.
Therefore, whatever he sees is directed towards his inner self. He
sees countless worlds directed towards it.  The
Buddha saw countless lifetimes in his mind; wasn't that
entirely focused on the inner self? We, on the other hand,
only see with our eyes outward.
But when the mind is pure, everything we
see and know must be directed towards the mind to be perceived—that
is enlightenment. It's different from ordinary
people. We ordinary people
see everything with our physical eyes; if we're blind, we can't see
anything, right? We don't know anything.
But the Buddhas, like the
Buddha, were blind in their physical eyes, yet they
attained the Heavenly Eye—the Heavenly Eye of
Enlightenment—and still saw and knew everything. Do
you understand this point? Therefore,
truly, conquering the mind is
difficult. Worldly affairs aren't difficult, are they?
We see that if
we're asked to carry a cart of earth, for
example, we just lose strength. We might work hard for
a day or two, or a few days if we're weak, then many days if we're
strong, and we can carry it all in one day.
But a single thought of anger—resentment towards someone—can
only accumulate throughout our lives.
It becomes hatred,
it doesn't lessen. Without the right
method to counter it, we see it's not difficult;
fighting against the inner self is the real challenge, for example...  It's
difficult for you fellow practitioners here to see handsome men and beautiful women and not be attracted to them or pursue them. Isn't that right? It
's difficult to not like someone else's wife. Is
n't that right? Carrying soil isn't
difficult, is it? It's not difficult at all.
But the masters can do that.
Because the Buddha's teachings are already there, there's
this saying: "The Dharma is there, desire must be abandoned,
skillfully and diligently, and you will enter the simple stream. The Dharma is there, the
Buddha has already guided you, desire
must be abandoned, meaning we must have the intention to
abandon desire, skillfully and diligently, and you will enter the stream of the Four Noble
Truths, liberation." The Buddha's
teachings are not difficult, are they? So,
truly, the Dharma is noble and difficult for those who are
greedy, but easy for
those with ideals of liberation, with a
broad mind, because of compassion to save all
beings. So,
we Buddhist practitioners
in the Golden Chrysanthemum Club of Loc Hoa,
we practice at home, we
also practice the Dharma, listen to the Dharma,
practice mindfulness, and
many other practices. And outside,
people often say, "I'm going to
leave."  Attending a VIP meditation retreat is one thing, but
in reality, theory is just theory.
We practice little by little. Do
you see how difficult it is? It has to progress gradually, we have to attain enlightenment,
we have Right View. Because Vi-Vi ...
We
only have Right Thought. Right View leads to Right
Thinking. If we don't have
Right View, then we're all thinking wrongly.
For many lifetimes, we've only had wrong views. So
here, Tâm Chiều Hà
Quán would like to add a little more for you, dear fellow
practitioners. View means seeing and knowing. View means seeing and
knowing. Is it that we see and know, and then
we form an opinion? No, that's not
right. View is
my seeing and knowing, so I have this opinion. Your
seeing and knowing, you have this opinion about
a problem, event, or phenomenon, right?
Then my seeing and knowing is
not true, it's called wrong
view. If my seeing and knowing is true,
then it's called Right View. It's very simple, that's all. And that seeing and knowing is something only
the Buddha could see and know;
we can't see and know it. For example, the
Buddha said that
killing leads to premature death, right? Only the
Buddha knows that;
how could we know? We must study Buddhism
to transform the
Buddha's seeing and knowing into
our own seeing and knowing so that we can think. That's why it's called Right View.
With Right View, there is
Right Thought. With Right Thought,
we can cultivate the body, feelings, mind, and phenomena. Only then can
we cultivate the mind, right? Only then can we
cultivate the body, and
our bodily actions become mindful, right?
That's right, everyone.
So, through this, the mind's complete contemplation
only adds a little more to let
us know that we are practicing,
but we are practicing as lay practitioners. We see that those who have
renounced the world are very noble, and we
think that all of us Buddhists
in the Golden Chrysanthemum Club
will eventually become ascetic practitioners practicing meditation,
right? Our
praise doesn't mean
we can't attain
that auspicious opportunity, right? We
praise and we practice! So
today's cultural performance of
our National Emperor Club aims to praise the
ascetic practice and also hopes that in the
future, we will have the auspicious opportunity to renounce the world and practice the
noble teachings
of the Buddha, to practice the
ascetic practices for liberation.  I am
liberating sentient beings and wishing to
avoid prolonged attachment to worldly affairs. Seeing this,
the new Lord Han Quan shares with you, dear
Dharma friends, so that we can
see that we are happier and
more at peace on the path of practice, and
we know what Dharma we are supporting the
monks in practicing and what its benefits are. Then, I wish you all diligent practice. May you
and your entire family
be peaceful and happy under the protection
of the Three Jewels and the support of
the monastic community at Ba Vang Temple. Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni
[music]
Ni
y